>> Maximiliano Firtman: Remember
that we talked about weak set.
And we talk also about weak maps?
Well, from ES 2021,
we can create weak references of
every object, so
we can create a weak reference and for
that, we use the weakRef
constructor we pass an object and
going back to the idea
that we mentioned before,
if you look at this code,
how many objects do we have?
What do you think?
Only those two lines, one object.
The object is actually this one.
That's the object, how many references?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Two.
But now we need to split in types
of references, strong references.
I have only one.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That one,
and weak references.
We have one, weakRef.
So what's the deal here?
If I do something like this.
Now what would happen?
I will not have a strong reference
anymore, which will lead in the future,
in the near future,
we don't know exactly when,
into the removal of the object
by the garbage collector.
So then I will keep a weak
reference that will point to null,
so the weak reference
will not keep that tied.
It says okay, if someone else,
if no one else needs that object, okay.
I'm okay with that, okay?
I'm okay if that object disappears.
That's what you're doing
when you create a WeakRef.
But you're thinking why is this important?
Because as JavaScript developers,
most of the time we have never
thought about memory a lot.
When you're doing other things,
when you're doing machine learning,
AI, now you can run AI in the browser,
you're using a lot of memory.
Or when you're doing WebGL,
you're doing VR,
augmented reality,
you're using a lot of memory and
at that moment if you don't release objects
that no one else is using is a problem.
You're probably thinking well have
in mind they're strong references and
put the all of them in null, but sometimes
you don't control all the references
because you're passing objects by argument
to the library should be your car,
you're passing the object will
from a lot of places, and
you don't know what those
libraries are doing.
Well now the idea is that if
the library doesn't own the object,
they will create a weak reference.
So we can have better control, also,
there are some situations that,
again, I don't wanna spend
too much time on this.
This is memory management,
but when you have object
a pointing to object b and
object b pointing to object a.
So, something like this.
You have a, that has property.
Let's call that property other
than by default it's null and
then we create b that has
another property pointing to a.
And after we create other b,
I will say that a.other = b.
Make sense?
So now we have a pointing to b,
b pointing to a.
Both strong references.
So here comes the part where you can,
if you have a lot of these situations,
you can end up with memory issues,
a memory leak.
Including memory leaks, okay?
Again, I'm not going to get too much
into this, but to solve this problem,
one of those references can
actually be a weak reference.
So you create a weak reference of the
other one, okay, to solve this problem.
Well, after saying this, when you have
weak references let me go back here.
To actually use the object,
you have to deref it, okay?
So to use, for example, the message.
So you see the message on the screen,
Hello,
world, you actually need to
call deref from reference.
It's just how it works, okay?
So because the weak reference is like
an object that has a pointer
to the real object.
Well, deref will try to get into the real
object because we know that the real
object might not exist anymore
because it's a weak reference.
Okay?
Make sense?
Any question?
On weakRef?
Again, if you're just doing a web app with
a form, with the screens going in and
out, you're probably not
going to use weakRefs, okay?
For when you are doing
a lot of memory management,
that's when this becomes important.
Also when you are working with web
assembly and you are calling or
communicating with native code,
this might make a difference.
And this typically comes at the same time
with finalization registry, which is what?
So when you create a new, to be honest,
I don't think I like the name.
They could create another name for
that, but anyway.
It's like an event listener for
the garbage collector.
Remember, the garbage collector is
a process running with the JavaScript
runtime.
That look through the memory for objects
that need to be removed because they don't
have any strong references anymore.
Strong reference zero.
So, in this case,
we can actually say, hey,
I want to create a new
finalization registry and
your register an object to it.
And this is kind a description.
So meaning that you can know or
you can do something when that
object is being cleared by the garbage
collector or is being garbage collected.
Why do you wanna do this?
This also has to do with,
memory management.
There are some languages.
The one that I remember immediately
are C plus plus Swift and Objective C.
I remember working with all of those.
They typically have a via
lock method in classes.
It's kind of similar to that,
but in JavaScript.
The ability to do something when
an object is going to be released from
memory.
For that, you use finalization registry.
What?
It can be via locking other
objects that you are connected to.
Sending message to a server, hey,
we are getting released from memory,
logging, what's going on,
things like that.
And after that object was released,
at some point in the future,
you should see null when you
deref that weak reference.
It's difficult to see it in action because
we don't manage the garbage collector.
So I don't know when the garbage
collector is going through and
deleting those objects.
In Java, you can call.
I think as far
as I remember is system.gc.
It calls the garbage collector to say,
hey, go now clean the garbage now, okay?
But in JavaScript, we don't have
at least not in a standard way.
So it may happen in the future because
now the object has no strong references.
The only reference is weak.
And because it's weak,
it's not actually holding that object.
Okay, make sense?
Again, it's for
an advanced usage of memory.